# What are different understandings?

In the previous article, we found that indexing is deeply related to understanding. However, can we somehow give a definition of understanding? We mentioned in the first article that memorization is different from understanding. So the explicit knowledge must not be the understanding and understanding must be something other than the knowledge itself. Naturally, because the "other" thing must be related to the stand-alone knowledge, we can call it the **implicit context** of the knowledge. With this definition, I claim that

::: tip Claim
To understand a thing, you must know that implicit context of it.
:::

and consequently,

::: tip Claim
The way to understand a thing, is the way to assign the implicit context to it.
:::

Let's illustrate this with a few examples. 

::: tip Example
Modern educated human think they understand earthquake and treat it as a result of the movement of tectonic plates. They think they understand because they can fit the phenomenon of earthquake into his existing knowledge of geology and use it as a context.
:::

::: tip Example
Ancient Japanese people think they understand earthquake and treat it as a result of the movement of a giant catfish supporting the Japanese islands. They think they understand because they can fit the phenomenon of earthquake into his existing knowledge of mythology and use it as a context.
:::

In this example, we show that different people have different understanding of the same thing. They assign different implicit context to one thing and both strongly believes so. 

Here, I want to emphasize that, we do not care about which context they assign is correct or not. We only care about the fact that they assign different context. Importantly, the context they assign might be both correct, but the context they assign is different.

::: tip Example
A person who believes geocentric model thinks he understands the movement planets because they can perfectly fit into his existing knowledge of astronomy and use it as a context, though in the context planets move in a very complicated way.
:::

::: tip Example
A person who believes heliocentric model thinks he understands the movement planets because they can perfectly fit into his existing knowledge of astronomy and use it as a context. The context is different from the previous one and the planets move in a very simple way.
:::

## Tree indexing as an understanding

As we introduced in the previous article, tree indexing can help assign a context to the knowledge. With a tree indexing, we can find existing knowledge that is similar to the incoming ones. With the help of the paths of the existing knowledge, a new path, namely a new context, can be created. This is the way tree indexing helps LLM to understand the knowledge. Specifically, the understanding can be carried out in the following way

::: tip Procedure
- Search similar knowledge in the knowledge base.
- Gather the paths of the similar knowledge.
-  Synthesize new paths for the incoming knowledge.
- Use the new paths as the context of the incoming knowledge for rephrasing them.
- Put the rephrased knowledge into the knowledge base.
:::


## Tree transformation as a transformation of understanding

The generation of implicit context in tree indexing relies on the logic of paths. Therefore, we can say the logic of path generation can be used to characterize understandings. People can change the path logic to achieve a new understanding. For example: TODO.


## Understanding inside LLM

LLM can understand sentences. Where is the implicit context? My interpretation is that the layers of the LLM is responsible for adding these implicit contexts, including the grammar, meaning of tokens and world knowledge. After being processed by layers, the hidden state, which is the embedding of the sentence, contains the implicit context. Therefore, we can say that even the simplest embedding based search provides a way to understand the knowledge, even when no tree structure is involved.


# Related works

[A Contextual Approach to Scientific Understanding](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11229-005-5000-4)

[Memory is a modeling system](https://doi.org/10.1111/mila.12220)
